## Git Info and basic commands

***git config user.name "Name"***
To configure the user name in git
***git config user.email "user@example.com"***
To configure the user email in git

***git commit -a***
Stages files automatically.
This helps skip the staging area, but only valid for tracked files. If the file is added for the first time i.e untracked file, this cannot be used. You need to do staging with git add

***git commit --ammend***
allows us to modify and add changes to the most recent commit. Basically overwrite previous commit. Avoid ammending commits which are already pushed to repository

**HEAD** can be thought as a pointer to current branch but more powerful.

***git log -p -n***
to get all the info on commits as patches(-p) and number of commits you want to view (-n e.g -2 displays 2 commits)

***git show < commit ID >***
if you want to see the specific commit

***git diff***
to know the changes done in the file

***git add -p***
Allows a user to interactively review patches to add to the current commit

***git rm < file >***
To remove the file from the git directory.

***git mv < oldname > < newname >***
to rename old file with new file

***.gitignore***
to ignore any file you dont want git to track which are generated by the OS or meta files then store file in .gitignore and commit it

## Undoing Unstaged changes
***git checkout < filename >***
git checkout restores files to the latest stored snapshot, reverting any changes before staging

## Undoing Staged changes
***git reset HEAD < filename >***
will unstage the file if it was staged using git add. It is the opposite of git add
**TODO**: git reset --soft/--hard

## Undoing Commited changes
***git revert < commit >***
will create a new commit that is the opposite of every thing present in the previous commit (e.g. commit can be HEAD or other commit ID). History will have both the commits, the original and the reverted
To identify a particular commit you want to revert:
git log -n (say n =3)
git show < commit ID upto first 8 chars>
git revert < commit ID > will revert this commit by producing a new commit


## Branching
***git branch new_branch_name*** followed by ***git checkout new_branch_name***
Shortcut is to do it in a singlestep
***git checkout -b new_branch_name***
***git checkout branch*** to switch to already existing branch
To delete branch
***git branch -d branch_name***
***git branch -D branch_name*** to delete forcibly
## Merge
merge is of 2 types:
1. fast forward (when no changes happens on master, you can directly merge the branch contents on master. Hence no new merge commit is made)
2. 3 way merge (when master also changes along with the branch, during merge a new merge commit is created). In 3 way merge there is merge conflict if both master and the branch modify the same file

To merge on master, go to master branch:
***merge branchname***
solve the merge conflict if there exists on the file
***git add file***
After merging to check information of the merge use
***git log --graph --oneline***
This will show the merged commit(on master) and the 2 commits which were actually merged(one commit of master and one from branch)
***git merge --abort*** to abort merge if you see conflicts